The Long Verse is the eternal, continually shifting 'poem of life' that constitutes the core of fey magic. In contrast to demonic magic, The Long Verse is laconic and mysterious. It's power lies more in the realm of interpretation, metamagic/metaphysics and existentialism.

Authorship of the Long Verse is slightly complicated. All fey magic emerges from it, and is influenced by its overriding tones/themes. As people cast spells and use magic, they contribute new sections to the verse that slightly nudge the overriding themes in one direction or the other.

For example, if there were only 10 total fey spellcasters and 6 of them decided to practice necromancy, then necromancy and the undead would become an overriding theme of fey magic. In a lot of ways the Long Verse is very 'zeitgeisty' insofar that it reflects the collective consciousness of its users. You could even compare it to the internet in a lot of ways. If people believe that the fey magic is evil, its much easier for them to imagine and create evil fey magic.

The issue now is [[The Whisper]], a single spellcaster that dominates contributions to the Long Verse. Over time they have slowly warped the entirety of fey magic into a twisted, nefarious, nebulous source of evil. Various tools and feedback loops assure that the dominant source of fey magic being created in the world leads back to them, which only consolidates their power.

However, if enough people contribute enough lines to the verse, the influence of the Whispers can be mitigated and perhaps even removed. The balance of the Long Verse is the thing that determines how it can be used.